<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
	<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8" />
	<title>EC Open Data Portal - SemMap installation</title>
	<style type="text/css" media="all">
		@import "./bootstrap.css";
		@import "./style.css";
	</style>
	<meta name="keywords" content="SemMap, ODP, EC, Open Data Portal, installation, deployment" />
	<meta name="description" content="Describes installing and configuring SemMap for EC ODP" />
</head>

<body>
	<div class="doc">
		<h2>EC Open Data Portal - SemMap installation</h2>

		<h3 id="TableOfContents">Table of Contents</h3>

		<div id="toc">
			<ul>
				<li><a href="#intro">Introduction</a></li>
				<li>
					<a href="#prereq">Prerequisites</a>
					<ul>
						<li><a href="#external-deps-services">External Dependencies</a></li>
						<li><a href="#external-deps-tools">Install required tools</a></li>
					</ul>				
				</li>
				<li><a href="#semmap-deploy">Deploy SemMap</a></li>
				<li>
				<ul>
					<li><a href="#semmap-install-archive">Install SemMap from Archive</a></li>
					<li><a href="#semmap-install-github">Install SemMap from Github</a></li>
					<li><a href="#semmap-configure">Configure SemMap</a></li>
					<li><a href="#apache-config">Configure Apache</a></li>
					<li><a href="#semmap-access">Access SemMap with the Browser</a></li>
				</ul>
				</li>
				<li><a href="#troubleshooting">Troubleshooting</a></li>
				<li><a href="#appendix">Appendix</a>
					<ul>
						<li><a href="#makefile-targets">Makefile targets</a></li>
					</ul>				
				</li>
				
			</ul>
		</div>

		<div id="intro">
			<h3>Introduction</h3>
This document contains an installation and configuration manual for the SemMap application as part of the EC Open Data Portal.
SemMap is an application enabling faceted browsing of spatial RDF data that is accessible via a SPARQL endpoint.
The manual is written for a RedHad system. The File und URL path names used in this document are intended to be aligned with
those of the production system.
Several steps of the deployment of SemMap and its dependencies require sudo rights.
		</div>

			<h3>Prerequisites</h3>
		<div id="prereq">
			<h4 id="external-deps-services">External Dependencies</h4>
<span class="todo">In the source code, make these parameters configurable in a central file, e.g. services.js.
We could, for instance, exchange the map service at some point in the project.</span>

SemMap uses external services for retrieving map tiles and performing place searches.
Please ensure that the following services are accessible:
<ul>
	<li>
		OpenStreetMap for map tiles
		<pre>ping http://tile.openstreetmap.org/</pre>
	</li>
	<li>
		Nominatim for place searches
		<pre>ping http://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/</pre>
	</li>
</ul>
GoogleMaps/GoogleMaps API is likely to be integrated in the future as an alternative service provider.

		<h4 id="external-deps-install">Install required tools</h4>
<ul>
	<li>
		If you are installing SemMap from the github repository, then the git tool is required for cloning the repository:
		<pre>sudo yum install git</pre>
	</li>
	<li>
		In any case, Apache is required
		<pre>sudo yum install httpd</pre>
	</li>
	<li>
		SemMap requires PHP for processing arguments that are passed via URL query strings
		<pre>sudo yum install php</pre>
	</li>
	<li>
		Additionally, <span class="pre">PHP-curl</span> is required for communicating with the Nominatim service in order to enable place-searches (e.g. “Leipzig”)
		sudo yum install php-curl
		Note: This dependency may become obsolete, as the communication could also be established using Apache's reverse proxy functionality.
	</li>
	<li>
		An installation of OpenLink's Virtuoso Triple Store.
		Please refer to TODO reference for this.
	</li>
</ul>

		</div>
		
		
		<div>
			<h3 id="semmap-deploy">Deploy SemMap</h3>
		
			<h4 id="semmap-install-archive">Installing SemMap from Archive</h4>
By default, the archive is named <span class="pre">SemMap.tar.gz</span>.
<ol>
	<li>
		Create the target Web directory
		<pre>mkdir -p /applications/ecodp/users/system/semmap</pre>
	</li>
	<li>
		Extract the archive:
		<pre>tar -zxvf SemMap.tar.gz</pre>
		The will create the directory <span class="pre">SpatialSemanticBrowsingWidgets</span>.
	</li>
	<li>
		Copy this folder to the Web directory:
		<pre>mv SpatialSemanticBrowsingWidgets /applications/ecodp/users/system/semmap</pre>
		The target folder should now directly contain the <span class="pre">index.php</span> file, i.e. <span class="pre">.../semmap/index.php</span>
		<span class="todo">Imprecise: Like this, we would copy SpatialSemanticBrowsingWidgets into the semmap folder.</span>
	</li>
	<li>
		Security Enhanced Linux (SE-Linux) is enabled by default on Red Hat, which means, that all files of SemMap must be declared as webcontent to it.
		Use the following command to do this: 
		<pre>chcon -R -t httpd_sys_content_t /applications/ecodp/users/system/semmap</pre>
	</li>	
</ol>					

			<h4 id="semmap-install-github">Install SemMap from Github</h4>
			
<ul>
	<li>
		Change the current working directory to the location where you want to check out the SemMap, for example
		<pre>cd /var/www</pre>
	</li>
	<li>
		Clone the project from the git repository
		<pre>git clone git://github.com/AKSW/SpatialSemanticBrowsingWidgets.git</pre>
		This will download all files into the directory SpatialSemanticBrowsingWidgets.
		<span class="note">The repository location is not final yet. An updated version of the deployment guide may be published later.</span>
	</li>
	<li>
		Switch to the odp (Open Data Portal) branch of the project:
		<pre>git checkout odp</pre>
		The main HTML file is named <span class="pre">index.phtml</span>
	</li>
	<li>
		You need to install further dependencies:
		<pre>make deploy</pre>
		See <a href="#makefile-targets">Makefile targets</a> for details on this command.
	</li>
	<li>
		Continue with step 3 of the section <a href="#semmap-install-archive">Installing SemMap from Archive</a>.
	</li>
</ul>

		<h4 id="semmap-configure">Configuring SemMap</h4>
 
			
<ul>
	<li>
		If the configuration files have not been set up already, run:
		<pre>make init</pre>
		This will set up the configuration file <span class="pre">config.js</span>.
		<span class="note">You will be asked for confirmation if existing files are to be overwritten.</span>
		See <a href="#makefile-targets">Makefile targets</a> for more details.
	</li>
	<li>
		Adjust the following parameterns in <span class="pre">config.js</span>:

		<table class="table table-striped table-bordered table-condensed">
		<tr><th>Property</th><th>Description</th><th>Level</th><th>Example</th></tr>
		<tr><td><span class="pre">config.sparqlServiceUrl</span></td><td>The URL of the SPARQL endpoint to be used by SemMap - <span class="note">as seen by the client browser</span></td><td>mandatory</td><td><span class="todo">http://opendata/sparql</span></td></tr>
		<tr><td><span class="pre">config.defaultGraphUris</span></td><td>An array of default graph names</td><td>optional</td><td><span class="pre">["http://ex.org/1", "http://ex.org/2"]</span></td></tr>
		<tr><td><span class="pre">config.odp.apiUrl</span></td><td>The URL of the API from which to fetch data for the default EC header links</td><td>optional</td><td><span class="todo">http://opendata/api</span></td></tr>
		</table>		
	</li>
</ul>


			<h4 id="apache-config">Configure Apache</h4>
			There are two things that must be configured in apache:
			(a) the directory that contains SemMap must be made available at a URL path, and
			(b) a reverse proxy to a SPARQL endpoint must be configured in order to prevent cross site scripting requests problems.
<pre>
    Alias /open-data/apps/semmap /applications/ecodp/users/system/semmap

    &lt;Directory /applications/ecodp/users/system/semmap&gt;
        Options Indexes FollowSymLinks
        AllowOverride All
        Order allow,deny
        Allow from all
    &lt;/Directory&gt;
</pre>
			
Apache needs to be configured so that SemMap can access the Virtuoso (cross site scripting)
Add the following snippet to the apache config (the lines starting with # are comments and can therfore be omitted):
<pre>
        # Prevent opening up the server for proxy requests.
        # NEVER enable this unless you know what you are doing.
        ProxyRequests Off 

        # Allow (reverse) proxying
        &lt;Proxy *&gt; 
            Order allow,deny 
            allow from all 
        &lt;/Proxy&gt; 

        # Reverse proxy for SemMap to the Virtuoso SPARQL endpoint. Adjust as needed.
        ProxyPass /SemMap/sparql http://localhost:8890/sparql retry=0 
        ProxyPassReverse /SemMap/sparql http://localhost:8890/sparql 
</pre>

		After having made the changes, run <pre>sudo service httpd reload</pre> to apply them.
		
			<h4 id="semmap-access">Access SemMap with the Browser</h4>		
		When visiting the URL <span class="pre">http://{{hostname}}/open-data/apps/semmap</span> the application should show up.
		</div>

<span class="todo">Add a defaultState parameter for pre-configuration of map center and facet selection.</span>


		<div id="troubleshooting">
			<h3>Troubleshooting</h3>
		
			<span class="note">No content here yet.</span>
		</div>


		<div id="appendix">
			<h3>Appendix</h3>
		
			<h4 id="makefile-targets">Makefile targets</h4>

<table class="table table-striped table-bordered table-condensed">
<tr>
	<th>Target</th>
	<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><span class="pre">deploy</span></td>
	<td>Downloads required dependencies from github (agilityjs, twitter bootstrap, Font-Awesome, RDFauthor)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><span class="pre">zip</span></td>
	<td>Bundles the current directory into the file <span class="pre">SemMap.tar.gz</span>,
	thereby excluding <span class="pre">.git*</span> files.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><span class="pre">init</span></td>
	<td>Sets up the initial configuration files.
	Currently this is only <span class="pre">config.js</span>.</td>		
</tr>
</table>		
		</div>

			


	</div>
</body>
</html>
